It's time to sit back and relax with
your favorite drink and listen.
[Music]
Our story tonight follows a historian
who risks everything to uncover what the
church keeps locked away. Inside the
shadowed halls of the Holy Sea, whispers
of forbidden knowledge and unspeakable
rituals begin to surface. And the deeper
he digs, the more he realizes some
secrets were never meant to be
unearthed.
The laptop I stole from a Catholic
priest has access to the Vatican secret
library by the Vatican archivist.
I'm placing my life at serious risk by
posting this. The title alone, if given
enough attention, will set forces in
motion that would shatter the courage of
even the bravest men. I'm a leaker, you
see, and what I have to reveal has been
ferociously guarded for centuries, and
for good reason. The Catholic Church has
an intricate and often sinister past.
What you read in textbooks or watch on
the news is only a minuscule fraction of
the Vatican's vile history. Even
historians, a profession, which I am
fortunate enough to call my own, hardly
understand the scope and power of the
papy's influence. I know that I didn't.
That is until I stole a laptop from a
highranking Catholic priest that has
access to the Vatican secret archives
and learned truths so staggering that
they may have made me question
everything I thought I knew about the
church's history.
The public deserves access to the
information in this archive. It is
criminal that the church has gotten away
with concealing these valuable documents
for so long.
Don't believe the Vatican's recent
transparency regarding this ancient
knowledge. The Pope's digitization and
disclosure efforts are nothing more than
a sham.
A thinly veiled masquerade designed to
keep the public happy.
The real insights that the Alikar has to
offer will never see the light of day.
They'll forever languish on dusty
bookshelves and encrypted hard drives
deep within the walls of Vatican City.
Which is why I decided to act.
I can't sit around while people are lied
to, while history's most important
documents are left to rot in the hands
of peevish priests.
As any self-respecting scholar would
agree, information is power, and public
information is the foundation which
western democracy is built upon.
I should warn you, though, the
information that I have to share will
shake you to your core.
Never before had I felt so frightened in
all of my life, and the first time I
deep dived into the archives's darkest
secrets.
How I came about this information is a
horror story all to its own, and one
which I feel is necessary to share with
you now, for maybe then you'll
understand why I volunteered to venture
on such a perilous crusade.
I first arrived in Vatican City 2 weeks
ago after securing my access card to the
Vatican Library. Given the amount of
qualifications and credentials required
to utilize this library, receiving an
access card is every researcher's dream.
So, after checking into my hotel room, I
sauntered through the towering columns
and sprawling architecture of Rome until
I reached the library.
Words can hardly describe the joy I felt
at the site of St. Peter's Basilica and
all of the other architectural marvels
of the Western world.
Thousands of pages of history books came
to life before my waking eyes,
transporting me back to the blissful
hours I'd spent in my youth, lounging in
armchairs and private library rooms,
daydreaming of strolling through the
Vatican palace.
As I traveled through the sloping
columns and freshly trimmed grass of the
Belvadier courtyard, a middle-aged
priest approached me. He was wearing the
traditional black ecclesiastical dress
of a cleric and had thin smile lines
framing his lips.
Welcome to Vatican City, he said,
caressing my hand. I am Father Bonal,
the man you've been corresponding with.
Thank you, Father, I said. It's an honor
to finally meet you. Vatican City must
truly be welcoming of scholars if men of
your statue are out in courtyards
greeting simple historians.
Father Bernard grinned. It's no trouble
at all. Walking the grounds is my
favorite hobby. The side of so much
history never grows old. And besides,
priests have step counters, too.
We both laughed. Uh, if you will follow
me, he continued, I will lead you to his
library. I'm sure you are anxious to
begin your research.
I followed him through the courtyard and
past the sprawling double doors of the
library.
The moment my eyes fell upon the blessed
manuscript lining the massive shelves, I
started beaming like a child.
It's uh quite as a marvel, isn't it?
Said father Bernard. I remember the
first time I passed through these doors.
It's an experience unlike any other.
Yeah, it certainly is.
Father Bernard chuckled and placed his
hand on my shoulder. I'll leave you to
it. Remember to pace yourself. I know
firsthand this library is allure.
Countless scholars throughout the
centuries have burned themselves out,
pouring through its endless sea of
scrolls.
I'll try my best.
I'm sure you will.
He moved his hand from my shoulder and
retreated toward the doors. Just as he
was about to step back into the
courtyard, he turned around and
addressed me. "Uh, how does getting
dinner this evening sound?" He said,
"Your research is fascinating. I would
love to hear more about your work. And
besides, I know where the real
restaurants are in Rome. All of the
establishments near Vatican City are
catered towards tourists.
Well, that sounds like an excellent
idea, Father. Thank you. Wonderful. Meet
a courtyard at 6.
I found Father Bernard later that
evening lounging on a pillar in the
middle of the courtyard.
"How did your research go?" he said,
smiling at me as I approached. "Better
than I could have imagined. The Vatican
Library holds up to its reputation. Oh,
I doubt any other library in the world
contains as many primary sources about
exorcism.
You're probably right. Our documentation
of the procedure is vast. I find a topic
quite interesting myself, which is why I
wanted to meet you. It's not every day I
have the chance to meet one of the top
exorcism experts in the United States.
We started walking towards a cab he had
waiting for us beyond the courtyard. You
flatter me. I'm just a simple historian.
Nothing more. Ah, don't sell yourself
short. Your work on the subject is
stunning. I just finished reading the
article you wrote about exorcism
practices in 17th century England, and
I'm very impressed by it. Your attention
to detail is astounding. Oh, you really
brought those old records to life.
I smiled as Father Bernard opened the
cab door for me. Thank you, Father. I
try my best. and it shows. He lowered
himself into the cab beside me. Take us
to Lvia, he said to the driver.
We arrived at Lvilla 10 minutes later
and were given a cozy table on the patio
despite not having a reservation.
One of the perks of being a monsor, said
Father Bernard.
I sat down and surveyed the panoramic
view of Rome before me. In the distance,
I could see the towering dome of St.
heaters which was backed by the
cascading spires of Vatican City.
The dome burned red with the setting sun
and reflected its warm hue onto the
surrounding towers by basking the
adjacent skyline in scintillating mists
of light.
Although we were at the fringe of the
city, I could still hear the steady den
of traffic and pedestrians below.
A waiter approached us. Father Bernard
addressed him in a steady torrent of
Italian that quickly surpassed my
limited understanding of the language.
I uh hope you don't mind me ordering for
you, he said. I find that it's easier
that way. Not at all, I said. Well, I
can tell you know what you're doing. I
have had some experience.
Father Bernard filled our glasses with
water from the picture the waiter had
left on the table. So tell me, he
continued, how did you become interested
in exorcism?
Um, reading The Exorcist as a child,
believe it or not, I became fascinated
by Regan's descent into the abyss and
Father Caris's daring plunge to bring
her back to the surface. Oh, the moment
I finished the book, I knew that I
wanted to learn everything I could about
exorcism.
Ah, The Exorcist is a great book.
William Peter Blatty is one of my
favorite authors.
I flashed him a surprise. Look, you've
read The Exorcist.
Oh, yes. Uh, like I told you earlier, my
fascination with the subject matches
your own. I'll read everything about the
right that I can get my hands on. Well,
including your work. That surprises me.
I thought most priests view the practice
as either a farce or archaic.
Uh, some do, yes, but most of us view
exorcism as an integral part of the
church's history.
is our primary link with the forces of
heaven and hell.
Um, forgive me if I'm being too forward,
father, but I have to ask, have you ever
performed an exorcism yourself?
Father Bernard leaned back in his chair
and regarded me with a dark eyes that
reflected the light of the lantern
swaying above our heads.
I have, he said, many times.
My heart rate increased.
He was only the third priest I'd met
admitting to having performed the right.
The church preferred to keep the
practice a secret, especially in a world
dominated by science.
What an experience it must be. I'd love
to hear your stories.
Maybe some other time. Instead, how
about I uh perform one for you?
When I saw the boy thrashing in his bed
and baing like a donkey, I nearly backed
out of the room. The child was obviously
deranged. White foam spewed forth from
his mouth in thick torance and pulled on
his emaciated chest, which was stre with
grime and shaking from his shallow
breathing. His eyes rolled in his
sockets like spinning discs as father
Bernard approached him. "Ah, this poor
child's name is Raphael," he said,
placing his hand on the side of the bed.
I've been performing exorcisms on him
for a month now, but to no avail.
I watched as Raphael's limbs pounded
against the bed like overworking
pistons. The leather straps confining
him to the stained and sweat-drenched
mattress shook violently under the force
of his pulling. No amount of reading
about possession could have prepared me
for such a gruesome sight.
Although Raphael was only a child, he
looked evil and had such a palpable look
of disdain plastered onto his face that
it threatened to strike the air from my
lungs.
"Will you be able to free him?" I said,
forcing myself to take another step into
the room.
I didn't want Father Bernard to notice
my fear. Witnessing him perform an
exorcism was a monumental privilege. I
didn't want him to regret bringing me to
such a perilous task.
God willing. Yes, he said. The demon
inside Raphael is vicious, but no more
than the good lord is righteous. I'm
confident that in time I will be able to
save him from the parasite that has
attached itself to his soul.
I watched as he pulled a copy of the
ritualia romanum from his pocket and
thumbmed open the yellow pages.
Brace yourself, he said. Raphael is a
fighter. Oh, he bit off his mother's
finger last week. If I were you, I
wouldn't get any closer.
As if on Q, Raphael reared back and spat
onto the blanket clustered around his
legs. Although his gesture filled me
with disgust, curiosity drew my eyes to
his saliva like a magnet does steel.
Wedged within the fleg and bile was a
human fingernail.
Excuse him, said Raphael in a bogus
French accent. He then started laughing
as if he just made the funniest joke in
the world.
Ignore him, said Father Banana, voice
nearly drowned out by Raphael's
laughter. He will do anything in his
power to break your spirits. Remember,
nothing he says is true.
I see you brought a friend this time,
father, said Raphael. I guess this is as
good a place to screw as any. I didn't
know you liked an audience.
Father Bernard pulled a cross from his
pocket and clutched it tightly in his
hand. Your days of fillings this child's
mouth with blasphemies and numbered. I
will draw you from his body like poison
from a wound. Are you sure that's a good
idea? If I go, then so does the boy. The
Dennisens of hell will dine on his soul
for an eternity. His sword belongs to
God and nobody else.
Has he ever spoken English before? I
said, doing my best to keep my voice
steady. This task was difficult enough.
Despite the decades I'd spent reading
primary sources about possession,
nothing could have prepared me for the
sight of the filthridden boy writhing on
the bed before me. His very presence
oozed evil. I could feel it clogging my
throat with each breath I took of the
putrid air.
He has nuts. We normally speak Latin.
Raphael snapped his eyes onto mine. The
intensity of his gaze quickened my
already elevated heart rate. Ah, here
for a show are you Yankee? Tired of
digging your nose in musty books?
Do not respond to him, said Father
Bernard. His only goal is to torment
you.
I ignored Father Bernard's advice if the
boy was actually possessed, and I
couldn't pass up the opportunity to
speak with him. My scholarly nature
wouldn't let me. I'd spent too many
years researching possession to simply
go mute in front of such a profound,
albeit malicious entity. And besides,
the boy's bloodshot eyes were commanding
me to speak. I had no more control over
the words that flow from my mouth than I
did my own beating heart.
I'm here to help Father Bernard free the
boy from your influence," I said. My
voice was surprisingly strong given the
fear reverberating throughout my body.
"You're not welcome here."
I glanced at Father Bernard, worried
that I'd overstep myself. He'd given me
a direct order not to answer the boy,
and there I was, threatening to send his
tormentor back to the abyss it had
crawled from. Luckily, his face appeared
amused rather than angry.
That's where you're wrong, Hanky, said
Raphael. I'm more welcome here than you
are. You're just not wise enough to
realize it yet.
What do you mean? I said. Father Bernard
interjected before Raphael had a chance
to respond. He is speaking nonsense, he
said. Pay him no mind. This is nothing
but a distraction designed to delay me
from performing the exorcism.
He lowered his eyes which glowed with
intensity despite the room's low light
towards the ancient book class firmly in
his hands.
Your time on this earth has come to an
end. Demon God is this boy's master, not
you. In the name of Jesus Christ, I
command you to relinquish your hold on
his spirit.
With that, Father Bernard began the
exorcism.
Passages from the ritual Romanum spewed
from his mouth like a roaring river and
filled the room with thundering echoes.
The cadence of his voice mesmerized me.
His words were equally terrifying and
beautiful.
Although I couldn't understand the Latin
spewing from his lips, especially given
how quickly he was speaking, the power
of his words filled every cell in my
body with excitement.
Never before or since had I felt so
close to God.
Father Bernard outstretched his cross,
which he had been clutching against the
back cover of the book, and approached
the bed.
His voice increased in volume as he
walked. By the time he was close enough
to touch Raphael's struggling limbs, he
was practically shouting. I resisted the
urge to cover my ears.
Despite the sadistic grin etched onto
his face, I could see fear in Raphael's
eyes. He no more wanted to be touched by
the cross than I did by a surgeon's
needle.
It was in that moment I learned that
even demons tremble in the presence of
God.
Raphael shied as far away from the cross
as his straps would let him. The bed
frame creaked from the force of his
pulling.
"Are you going to let him kill the boy,
Yankee?" He said, "If he takes one more
step, then I am going to cast the boy to
hell." "You will do no such thing," said
Father Bernard. "The boy's soul belongs
to God and God alone. You are nothing
but a parasite designed to corrupt weak
and innocent. I will not stand for it.
God will not stand for it."
I watched as Father Bernard placed the
cross onto Raphael's forehead. Raphael
screamed the moment the metal struck his
flesh. as if it were a red hot cattle
brand. His eyes rolled in their sockets
with such pain and ferocity, I feared
that they might pop out. "Relinquish
your hood on this boy's spirit," said
Father Bernard. "Your time violating his
body and soul has come to an end. Return
to your master."
Raphael released such a guttural scream,
it made my hair stand on end. I imagined
his vocal cords tearing thread by thread
and shuddered.
Father Bernard resumed his recitation of
the exorcism ranks, all the while
pressing the cross against Raphael's
foreheads as if he was trying to borrow
it into his skin. The veins on his neck
protruded from the force of his voice.
I stood there motionless for an
indeterminable amount of time as Father
Bernard continued the exorcism until
eventually Raphael's body went slack.
With a sigh of relief, Father Bernard
removed the cross from his forehead and
retreated from the bed. "It's
done," he said. "It's finally done."
We barely had time to catch our breath
before Raphael's eyes snapped back open.
He then let out a laugh so sinister it
sucked the light from the room.
You're wrong, priest. Our little dance
is far from being over. The boy is mine.
Not even God can save him.
Father Bernard shut the door behind them
as we passed into the hall, muffling
Raphael's hysterical shrieks, which were
biting at our heels like a rabid dog.
What?
What happens to the boy now? I said for
the time being nothing, said Father
Bernard. I will try another exorcism in
a few days.
I followed him into the living room. The
boy's mother, Angela, hurried over to us
the moment we exited the hall, face
contorted with worry.
Father Bernard said something to her in
Italian, and then tears filled her eyes.
Poor woman, he said to me, following a
brief conversation in which he tried to
console her. Ah, she is at the wits end.
It's best we leave now so she and the
boy can rest.
With a final nod towards Angela, he
exited the cottage.
Just as I was about to follow him back
to the car, Angela rushed towards me and
placed a crumpled piece of parchment in
my hand. I looked down at the parchment
and found the following message scrolled
hurriedly in broken English.
Don't trust the priest. He is not what
he seems. Please help us.
I returned to Raphael and Angela's house
early the next morning. The implications
of Angela's note had prevented me from
sleeping. Father Bernard seemed like a
genuine man of God. My stomach turned at
the thought that his righteousness might
be a facade.
Was he truly capable of harming a child?
Based on the exorcism Mike witnessed, he
was doing everything in his power to
save the boy, not condemn him. Still,
there was always the possibility that
yesterday's events could have been an
act, a ruse designed to mask a motive so
sinister that even my own active mind
couldn't deduce it. I am more welcome
here than you are. You're just not wise
enough to realize it yet.
Raphael's words sounded in my mind as I
approached the door. At the time, I'd
taken this warning as an attempt by his
tormentor to frighten me, but now I
doubted the veracity of this impression.
Given the content of Angela's note, the
demon's words might have been a genuine
taunt.
The thought that Father Bernard might be
in league with the forces of hell made
my blood run cold.
When I arrived at the door, I knocked a
few times and then placed my hands in my
pockets. A cold front had descended over
Rome during the night, bringing with it
thick mists and gray skies.
The early hour only intensified this
cold. I could already feel redness
rising in my cheeks and cursed myself
for not packing a proper hat.
Angela swung open the door a few moments
later. Her hair was wild and her eyes
were red and puffy, as if she'd been
crying.
Thank goodness you've come, she said. I
was worried you might ignore my note.
Please come inside.
I followed her into the living room. I
apologize for not coming sooner. I said
I um had difficulties giving the cab
driver directions to your house. I'm
still new to the city.
There's no need to apologize. I'm happy
that you came at all. I was up all night
wondering if you would show my note to
Father Bernard. Given that it's you
standing in my living room and not him,
I suspect that he doesn't know you're
here. I haven't spoken to Father Bernard
since yesterday evening. So, he knows
nothing of my notes. Yes.
Angela's shoulder straightened as a wave
of stress visibly rolled off her body. I
appreciate your secrecy. Your presence
means more than you will ever know.
It's not a problem. Although, I can
assure you, Father Bernard is a good
man. You shouldn't have any reason to
fear him. He's been nothing but kind to
me since I arrived in Rome.
You only say that because you don't know
what he's capable of. His kindness is
only an act.
His evil knows no boundaries.
What do you mean?
Angela sighed and ran her fingers
through her growing hair. He's a bad
priest, one of the worst in the city,
and that's saying a lot. She paused and
locked the door behind us. Then she
followed me into the living room. I'm
getting ahead of myself, though. I
haven't even offered you anything to
drink. Please take a seat by the fire.
I'm sure you're cold. Thank you. I
walked across the room and sat in the
rustic armchair beside the fireplace.
Pleasure washed over my body as heat
bathed my skin.
Angela's cottage was simple and
well-kept. A beautiful tapestry of the
Virgin Mary hung above the fireplace,
and the walls were dotted with crosses.
On the wooden shelf across from me sat a
portrait of Raphael. "Care for some
coffee?" asked Angela. "Uh, yes, please.
One moment." She disappeared into the
kitchen and returned a few moments later
holding a steaming cup.
Thank you, I said, grabbing the cup. I'm
afraid that I don't have any sugar, she
said, sitting down in a nearby chair,
but I added some milk. Is it hot enough?
It's wonderful. Thank you, Angela. A
scream sounded from Raphael's room. The
scream was followed by the pounding of
wood and creaking of floorboards as
Raphael struggled against the straps
binding him to the bed frame. "Oh, that
poor child," said Angela, glancing
towards the room. He's been through so
much pain this month. So you you think
he's truly My voice trailed off. I
couldn't force myself to say the word,
especially to the boy's mother.
Possessed. Absolutely. There's no other
explanation for his symptoms.
When did his symptoms first arise?
After we met Father Bernard.
I lowered my cup, which was raised
halfway to my mouth, to the end table
beside me. I don't understand. Isn't
Father Bernard trying to save him?
Angela let out a distress laugh. That
couldn't be any further from the truth.
He's the one that tainted Raphael's
soul. What do you mean? Ever since
Father Bernard entered our lives,
Raphael's affliction has only gotten
worse. Like I told you, he's a bad
priest. Like so many other priests in
this cursed city.
Now, let me make sure I'm understanding
you properly. You're saying that Father
Bernard is the reason your son is
possessed.
Yes.
I flashed Angela a concern look. You
can't seriously believe that. The man's
a monsor for Christ's sake.
I know it sounds crazy, but I can assure
you, Father Bernard is not the man you
think he is. He's evil and he's ruining
my son's life.
She placed a hand over her mouth to
stifle a song. Or Raphael is a good boy.
He doesn't deserve this fate. He's not
the only innocent soul being tainted by
the church, though. There are whispers
of possession cases just like he's
popping up all over the city. Everybody
knows that the church is responsible,
but nobody has the power to do anything
about it. The church controls everything
around here, from the police to the
politicians.
If that's the case, then what good can I
do you? From what you're saying, the
police can't even help him. You're a
foreigner, which means you're not
corrupted by the Vatican's influence.
Take Raphael back to America with you,
please. He'll be safer in your country.
What you do with him when you get there
is up to you. Drop him off at an
orphanage if it suits you. Just please,
just rescue him, please, from the
priest. I beg you.
Angela's tears, which have been slowly
building throughout our conversation,
began to fall full force.
Look, I want to help you, Angela, but
what you're saying is impossible. I
would never be able to get him past
customs, and that's not even taking into
consideration his condition. Bringing
him with me would do him more harm than
good. You don't know that. I'm sure you
can find a way to smuggle him into
America if you think long enough. I'll
give you all the money that I have. It's
not much, but it's more than enough to
pay for his keep.
I'm sorry, Angela. I can't do it.
Raphael screamed so loud that it made
both of us jump in our seats.
Do you mind if I go and check on him? I
said. Not at all, said Angela, wiping
away her tears. That's very kind of you.
I walked towards the hallway beside the
kitchen. Raphael's room was at the end
of this hallway, and I approached the
weathered wooden door on silent feet and
turned the door knob.
The moment I entered the room, I nearly
vomited.
Never before had I encountered such a
foul smell. I felt like I'd walked into
a room filled with spoiled meat and
raised my shirt above my nose.
I glanced down at Raphael.
Even though the boy appeared to be
asleep, his limbs writhed every few
moments as if he were covered in ants.
Bed sores lined his entire body and his
wrists and ankles were severely bruised
from his straps. In short, he looked
like a living corpse.
Oh, you poor child," I said under my
breath. I lowered my shirt and
approached the bed. Pity filled me as I
stared down at the child's emaciated
frame. So moved was I by emotion that
for a moment I considered agreeing to
Angela's plan. Deep down though, I knew
that this plan was impossible and
mourned the terrible situation that
Raphael had been dealt.
Just as I was about to return to the
living room, I heard a loud knock drift
in from the entryway.
Angela raced through the door a few
seconds later, face pale.
"It's Father Bernard," she said, voice
rushed. "You need to hide quickly."
I hurried over to the closet on the
other side of the room, moving as
quietly as possible to avoid waking
Raphael.
The last thing I needed was for the
child to regain consciousness and betray
my presence to Father Bernard. For all I
knew they might be working together,
although for what purpose I shuddered to
think.
I shut the door behind me and listened
as Angela welcomed Father Bernard into
the house. Her voice was pleasant, but
the fake kind of pleasant that betrayed
her as a hostage.
Never before had I felt so sorry for
another human being. She'd been thrown
into the lion's den and was powerless to
save herself. All she could do was b her
time and hope that her situation
improved before it swallowed her a
whole. My sorrow only intensified as I
glanced at Raphael through the slats on
the door. The boy was even more innocent
than his mother. His possessed state had
all but ruined his body, and I prayed
that he'd be freed from his tormentor
before his soul followed suit.
A steady wave of Italian graced my ears
as they conversed in the living room.
Despite not being fluent in the
language, I identified enough phrases to
know that they were talking about
Raphael.
Father Bernard wanted to see him. He
said that they had unfinished business.
A pair of heavy footsteps sounded in the
hall. My heart rate increased as they
got closer and nearly doubled when
Father Bernard passed into the room. He
paused near the doorway for a few
moments, glaring at Raphael before
approaching the bed.
"Wake up," he said, kicking the bed
frame. Raphael's eyes flew open. Even
from across the room, I could see how
bloodshot and milky they were. Given the
abysmal state of his corners, it amazed
me that he wasn't blind. "Back so soon,
father," said Raphael. "I see you came
alone this time. Where's your friend?
Did he already get tired of screwing
you? Enough. I don't have time for your
taunts. You're going to give me what I
want this time or I swear to God I will
send you back to hell.
Oh, you act like this is such a threat.
Remember, priest, hell is my home.
Don't pretend like you wouldn't prefer
to stay inside a boy. Your enthusiasm
for his flesh betrays your true desire.
Uh, the boy is a trinket to me and
nothing more. You seem to forget that
you are the one who placed me inside
him. I was perfectly content with my
existence before you conjured me.
Father Bernard flashed him a disdainful
look. That's a lie. We both know that I
did you a favor. Don't try to hide it.
It is I that is positioned to do it the
favors. You have nothing to offer me,
priest, and yet I have everything to
offer you. The secrets of heaven and
hell are at my fingertips. If I didn't
like seeing you sweat so much, I might
be tempted to give you the knowledge
that you seek.
Raphael wrapped his hands around his
straps and grinned. As it stands, I
think I will stay mom on the subject.
The suffering your burning curiosity
causes is too palpable. I can
practically smell it in the air. I want
to savor it.
Father Bernard pounded his fists on the
mattress so hard the floor creaked.
I summoned you, demon. I command you to
answer me.
Life isn't a fastest legend. But I You
can't command me to do anything.
I've wasted enough time on you. Coming
here again so soon was a mistake. Hell
is overflowing with twisted souls and
deviant entities desperate for flesh.
I'm sure I can find one who is willing
to give me is the knowledge that I
desire.
Before Raphael could respond, Father
Bernard pulled the ritual Romanam from
his pocket and launched into another
exorcism.
His words echoed around the room with
insidious clarity and shook the door,
concealing me with their power.
As the exorcism wore on, Raphael began
to laugh. Father Bernard's words were
affecting him no more than the flies
buzzing around his fetted mouth. In
fact, he was even enjoying the priest's
performance of the ancient right as if
he was sitting front row to his favorite
play.
Eventually, Raphael's laughter grew so
loud that Father Bernard gave up the
exorcism and threw the ritual Roman to
the floor. "That's it," he said. If I
can't sever your presence from Z boy's
flesh, then I will send the boy stinking
into his earl.
I watched in horror as Father Bernard
leapt onto the bed and wrapped his hands
around Raphael's throat. The veins
protruded from his neck as he squeezed
with all of his might.
Every atom of my being was telling me to
intervene, but fear rooted my feet to
the floor. I'd fallen entirely into
shock. Never could I have imagined a
priest behaving so heinously.
Raphael let out a gurgling sound and
flailed his limbs. His struggles were
pointless, though. The straps burning
his feet and hands were too powerful for
him to retaliate.
All he could do was lay there sputtering
as Father Bernard constricted the life
from his body. A few seconds later,
Raphael kicked his legs a final time and
then fell still.
A heavy silence filled the room, broken
only by Father Bernard's labored
breathing.
Just as he was lowering himself from the
child's lifeless body, Angela came
barreling through the door. The
commotion, followed by its immediate
sessation, must have alerted her to the
horrors taking place.
She screamed in despair at the sight of
her son's corpse.
This despair soon morphed into rage as
she regarded Father Bernard.
How dare you touch him? She said in
Italian, voice with anger and sorrow.
How dare you tear this family apart?
Remember your place, said Father
Bernard, also in Italian. What just
transpired is none of your concern. It
is between me and God.
Even now you evoke God's name. After
what you have just done, you are a
monster. You don't deserve to live.
Angela threw herself at him, snarling
and screaming like a wounded animal. She
crashed into him with such force that
she sent him tumbling back onto the bed.
She then started pounding him with as
much strength as her tiny fist could
master. Father Bernard's initial shock
from attack didn't last long. Within
moments, his hands found her throat, and
he throttled the life from her lungs
even quicker than he had Raphael's.
The murder was complete before it hardly
had time to react.
Regardless, I curse myself for my
cowardice.
The burden I bear for not assisting such
a kind and innocent family haunts me to
this day.
I watched in a day stuper as father
Bernard dragged their bodies from the
room and soon disappeared from the
house.
What haunts me even more about that day,
though, is a small detail that I didn't
notice until later that night.
When this realization finally struck me,
I nearly fainted from its implications.
The demon inside Raphael had chosen to
speak English. It had been aware of my
presence and wanted me to understand its
conversation with Father Bernard.
It had wanted me to learn.
Witnessing Father Bernard murder Raphael
and Andrew in cold blood affected me so
profoundly I spent the next morning
languishing in my hotel room, curtains
drawn. I felt like I'd aged 10 years.
Dark-colored bags frame my eyes and
stress lines dominated my forehead. My
entire body achd with nervous energy.
At any moment, I feared that Father
Bernard might come crashing through the
door, pale hands outstretched and
threatening to tumult me into the abyss.
No matter how hard I tried, I couldn't
banish the memory of Raphael and
Angela's lifeless bodies from my mind.
Every time I closed my eyes, their
swollen throats and bulging eyes
sabotaged my awareness.
Guilt for leaving them to their fates
haunted my every breath.
I curse myself for doing nothing to save
them, and wish that it was myself that
Father Bernard had throttled to oblivion
instead of such a sweet and innocent
family.
In the rare moments that I wasn't
crippled by guilt, my mind swam with
questions.
What information was Father Bernard
after? And why was he using such
despicable means to obtain it? The
answer to these questions eluded me,
despite my best efforts to deduce them.
All I knew was that whatever he was
after, he would stop at nothing to get
it.
Even more pressing was the question of
why Raphael had chosen to keep my
presence hidden from Father Bernard. The
entity had obviously wanted me to
witness the Waywood Priest's true
behavior. But why? Had it simply been
toying with me, or did it expect me to
act on such a terrifying revelation?
Questions surrounding the demon's
motivation tormented my every breath and
burned my mind with uncertainties.
I desperately wished that I could report
the matter to the police and be done
with it. Given my conversation with
Angela, though, I knew such an easy
solution was impossible.
Stopping Father Bernard was my burden to
bear whether I liked it or not.
As the day wore on and my anxiety
increased, I decided to return to the
Vatican Library. Continuing my research,
I was compiling an anthology of primary
source documents about exorcism would
hopefully clear my head. So, I dawned my
coat and entered the brisk Tuscan air.
When I arrived at the library, I was
surprised to find it practically empty.
Less than a dozen scholars were milling
about the shelves, and even few were
sitting at the tables interspersed near
the library's rear.
Pleased with the solitude I was about to
enjoy, I selected a manuscript detailing
an exorcism that had taken place in
Paris in the 30s, sat down, and began to
read.
Before I'd even finished the first page,
I heard a chair rustle directly to my
right. I looked up and nearly jumped
when I saw Father Bernard sitting down
next to me. "I thought that I might find
you here," he said, straightening his
collar. I neglected to ask you which
hotel you are staying at. His sudden
appearance filled me with dread, but I
somehow managed to keep my wits and
respond. "Hello, father," I said. "What
a pleasant surprise." "Ah, the pleasure
is all mine. I hope I'm not disturbing
you." "Not at all. I always have time
for a friend. Excellent.
Father Bernard paused and crossed his
arms on the table. There is some news
that I've been meaning to share with
you, he continued. And it's rather
tragic, I'm afraid.
What is it?
Angela and Rafael are dead. I feigned a
look of surprise. Dead? How? As they
were murdered last night in their home.
The police are there investigating now.
So far, they don't have any leads. The
crime appears to be random, which is not
surprising giving the current state of
the city. My guess is it was a petty
burgly gone wrong. It happens all the
time.
That's terrible, especially after
everything you've done to help them.
That's a shame that you weren't able to
save the boy.
I agree. The situation is tragic. I
would hang the criminal myself if I
wasn't a man of the cloth. Well, as
would I?
Father Bernard nodded and tapped his
fingers against the table. Have you
eaten dinner yet? I haven't. Neither
have I. What do you say we'll return to
my room? I've got some pastel I can
prepare.
I don't know, father. I'm feeling rather
tired. I was thinking of returning to my
hotel room and going to bed early this
evening. Yeah, nonsense. No friend of
mine will go to bed on an empty stomach.
And besides, I've been dying to ask you
about your research. I've been dwelling
on several questions regarding exorcism
for quite some time now, and I'm hoping
that you might have the answers.
Father Bernard's chamber was simple and
surprisingly well put together. Shelves
of books line the walls, and as did
portraits of Jesus and the Virgin Mary.
The only object tying the apartment to
the present day was a laptop resting on
a mahogany desk in the center of the
room. "If it wasn't for this simple
piece of technology, the apartment could
have been bought straight from the
Middle Ages." "Uh, it is not much, but
it's home," said Father Bernard, passing
into the kitchen. "Please find a seat as
a table. The pasta will be ready
shortly." I sat down at the table in the
kitchenet and forced to smile when
Father Bernard appeared a few minutes
later carrying a steaming bowl of pasta.
"Ah, just like my mother used to make
it," he said, spooning me a bowl. We
began our meal in silence, although my
mind was too preoccupied to give much
attention to the pasta. I had to admit
the dish was excellent.
So tell me, said Father Bernard between
bites of pasta, during your studies,
have you ever come across an inverion
defila?
Um, I have not, I said. Father Bernard's
face noticeably fell. That's
unfortunate. In English, inverion
defortun roughly translates to reversal
of fortune and refers to his act of
summoning spirits and placing them in
human hosts. There was a half dozen or
so priests who experimented with the
ritual during the inquisition and
possibly even before to punish enemies
of the church. My heart quickened.
Interesting. I'm surprised I've never
heard of it. Well, I'm not. Although I
was hoping that you would have stumbled
across at least some account of the
right during your extensive research.
Records of the procedure are rare. The
only information I've been able to find
is with the apostolic archive or was a
secret archive as the public loves to
refer to it as.
You have access to the apostolic
archive.
Yes, very few of us do. As the Pope
likes to keep the documents under wraps,
even from priests, even though most of
the archive has been digitized, the Pope
still keeps access limited.
I remembered the laptop sitting in the
living room, and my heart quickened even
more.
Wow, what a privilege it must be to have
access to the apostolic archive. I can't
imagine the insight those documents
provide into the dealings of the church.
You're right. You can't imagine it.
Nobody can. I'm a priest and even I was
floored by the information in the
archive.
Well, um I have to ask your interest in
this or in version defortunes
me.
How did this interest begin?
Father Bernard was silent for a few
moments. When he spoke again, his voice
was soft. My love for the Bible, he
said. Ever since I was a child, I have
been fascinated by the titans of the
church depicted in that book. Peter,
Paul, David, Mary, Joseph, Jesus, all
devout followers of God who have been
shining examples of the Christian faith
throughout the ages. I've always
wondered what it would be like to talk
to these saints. What insights they
could give into the metaphysics of
heaven and hell. Given the immense span
of time separating my life from theirs
though, these conversations are
impossible.
Regardless, I keep asking myself, what
if there was a way to communicate with
them? What if I could learn the secrets
of heaven and hell despite my
imprisonment on earth? That's where my
fascination with the inverse defortun
began.
Although the procedure has only been
successfully used to conjure demons,
what if it can be used instead to summon
angels?
What if by the simple twisting of a
phrase, we could replace a soul with
paws instead of viol?
Can you imagine how much of a gift that
would be?
A loud thud sounded from the bedroom,
cutting off his words.
One moment, said Father Bernard, rising
from his feet. I think that something
must have.
The bedroom door swung open and crashed
against the wall, freezing the words in
his throat.
Standing in the hallway were Raphael and
Angela, flesh pale and throat swollen.
Their hair was wild and unckempt, and
their clothes were covered in blood.
Behind them lay an overturned bed,
revealing an open trap door leading into
the floor.
I reared back from my chair and stumbled
towards the living room. Angela and
Raphael's sudden appearance shocked me
beyond words. They were supposed to be
dead. I mean, I'd watched their eyes go
dark and their bodies go limp. Yet, they
were there standing in the doorway,
bodies pale and twisted, but very much
alive.
"This is impossible," said Father
Bernard, rising so quickly from his
chair that it went plummet into the
ground.
They had you both secure.
"Your chains are weak, father," said
Angela. Her voice was morphed beyond
recognition. "Did you really think they
would hold us forever? Not even God is
that powerful."
"We refused to rot in your cellar," said
Raphael. "If you truly want to learn the
secrets of hell, then you can find them
out for yourself. Hell always has room
for one more soul, especially a
priest's.
I sprinted into the dining room and
tackled Father Bernard to the ground.
Bernard screamed as they sank their
teeth into his skin.
I watched in stunned silence as they
eviscerated his flesh like rabid
animals. Blood poured down his arms and
legs in velvet streams.
Soon his black tunic turned a deep red
and adered to his body like a new layer
of flesh. No matter how badly my desire
to flee from the apartment raged, my
feet remained glued to the floor. I felt
like a child who had just snuck into
their first horror film. My eyes were
transfixed by the frightening scene in
front of me, and I couldn't look away
even if I tried.
with a roar that caused the hair on the
back of my neck to raise. Father Bernard
plunged his hand into his pocket. He dug
around for a few moments, body twisting
as he tried to break free from his
asalance before producing a glass vial.
"In the name of God, my father," he
bellowed, spinning open the cap with
surprising dexterity. "I command you to
release me."
He poured the contents of the vial
directly into Raphael and Angela's
faces. They screamed in pain as the
liquid dowsed their skin and went
scrambling to their feet.
Despite my hatred for Father Bernard, I
had to give it to him. Using his holy
water as a weapon was a clever move. Not
only did it send Raphael and Angela
careening towards the blood spattered
wall, but it bought him time to rise to
his feet and grab a crucifix from a
nearby shelf.
Raphael and Angela's skin blistered as
the water cascaded first down their
foreheads and then their cheeks. Smoke
emanated from their pores and filled the
room with a sulfuric smell that tickled
my nose. Although I didn't think it
possible, their eyes turned an even
deeper red. I watched as Father Bernard
took a step towards them, half empty
vial raised. Return to the cellar, he
said, or I will melt the flesh from your
bones.
Raphael stared at him for a few moments,
blistering skin oozing past, then let
out a laugh that echoed around the
apartment with unnatural volume.
We spent an eternity without flesh, we
said. Go ahead and melt it. Just as
Father Bernard was raising his leg to
take another step forward, the lights
went out. The apartment plunged into
such a heavy darkness that I could
hardly see my hand in front of my face.
All I could hear was the sound of
Raphael and Angela's raspy breathing.
"You cannot defeat us, priest," said
Angela. Based on the sound of her voice,
I could tell that she'd retreated deeper
into the room. "We're too powerful, and
besides, your faith is twisted. God
despises corrupt priests. He will not
aid you. First, we will kill you," said
Raphael, voice drifting in from the
kitchen. "Then we will incinerate this
blasted palace. The Vatican has been
crumbling for centuries. It's time that
somebody eased it into the ground." "You
will do no such thing," said Father
Bernard. Despite the power in his voice,
I could also sense his fear. This
situation was quickly spinning out of
his control. "I'm not done with you yet.
Only after you give me the information
that I seek will you be set free. Until
then, both of you are mine to do with as
I pleased.
I heard the whispering of feet upon the
carpet. I gritted my teeth in
anticipation of the end, then let out a
sigh of relief when a candle came
bursting to life beside me, revealing
Father Bernard at my side instead of
Raphael or Angela. Stay close, said the
priest. Their hatred for humankind
doesn't discriminate. Although they are
mainly after me, they will not hesitate
to kill you either. I nodded. Despite my
reservations about Father Banana, I knew
that I needed his help in order to
escape from the apartment with my life.
I was no more equipped to battle the
forces of hell than a boy scout to
survive a month in the Amazon. I was
entirely out of my element. Books were
my element, and dusty archives, not
battling the possessed.
So, what's the plan? I said, place our
faith in God and pray that he gets us
out of this mess alive.
He raised his candle and crucifix and
started walking towards the living room.
The apartment had fallen entirely
silent. Raphael and Angela could be
anywhere, from behind the couch to
underneath the bed. It was then that I
realized just how much of a disadvantage
we were at. They could pounce on us at
any moment and we'd be powerless to stop
them. We were weaponless other than
Father Bernard's crucifix and holy
water. We had no defenses.
I followed Father Bernard into the
living room. The light of the candle
turned the room a pale orange and cast
deep shadows that shook with a dancing
flame.
I imagined Angela's eyes stroking my
flesh through the darkness and resisted
the urge to tremble.
My eyes locked onto the laptop resting
on the table in the corner. What kind of
secrets were housed inside that delicate
machine? The legends of the apostolic
archive filled my mind and burn my body
with curiosity despite my perilous
situation.
Oh, if I only had access to that
archive, then I could uncover not only
Father Bernard's malicious motivations,
but the secrets that the church had been
concealing for centuries.
I wondered, for how long had priests
like Father Bernard been allowed to
wreck havoc on communities unpunished?
For how long had the church been serving
faithful Catholics only to turn around
and abuse them for diabolical reasons
that I was, as of yet too ignorant to
discern.
My skin crawled at the thought of the
documents housed in the secret archive.
I just had to know what kind of dark
activities the church was up to, making
it possible for the perverse priests
like Father Bernard to rise so quickly
through the ranks. It was in that moment
that I first became aware of my purpose.
Somebody needed to expose the church for
what it really was, or priests like
Father Bernard would continue praying on
families for decades to come. I couldn't
let that happen.
I vow to steal the laptop the first
chance I got.
The sound of shattering glass boom from
the kitchen, jolting my eyes away from
the laptop. "Show yourselves," said
Father Bernard, raising his crucifix.
The metal glowed with the light of the
candle in his other hand as if it were
made of glass.
Bernard's command was met by a whispered
laughter which echoed unnaturally around
the apartment like ricocheting of bat
shrieks.
"Give us the priest and we'll set you
free," said Raphael from some unseen
place in the apartment.
Based on the proximity of his voice, it
sounded like he was on the ceiling.
thought of Raphael lurking in the
shadows above my head. Bloodshot eyes
tracking me in the darkness constricted
my lungs.
For a moment, I actually considered
accepting Raphael's offer. Father
Bernard deserved to die. His evil was
not only a plague on the city, but the
Catholic faith that I cherish so dearly.
And besides, watching Raphael tear out
his throat would be a satisfying slice
of situational irony.
Father Bernard had damned the boy's soul
to hell. So why shouldn't the boy get to
do the same? Why not let him enact
justice a Morabi style on the priest's
unsuspecting flesh?
That I considered facilitating such a
heinous act, even for a moment, filled
me with shame. How could I let fear, no
matter how palpable, mutilate the ethics
of my faith? If the situation would have
allowed it, I would have supplicated
myself below the portrait of Jesus
Christ to my right and begged for
forgiveness until my throat turned raw.
As it stood, I only had my guilt to show
for my penance, which I offered up to
the Lord like the ancient goat
sacrifices of the Hittites.
Father Bernard must have sensed my
temptation and my subsequent guilt, for
he smiled at me warmly through the
shadows, blanketing his face like a
thick mist, as if he were forgiving me
for thinking of throwing him to the
walls.
"Consider my proposition wisely," said
Raphael. "Remember, I'm the one who
revealed the priest's true nature to
you. I could have announced your
presence yesterday as you hid in the
closet, but I wanted you to witness the
perversion of your faith. Our goal is
the same. We both want to overturn this
decaying sepulra that is Catholicism.
Starting with the sadistic priest
standing beside you now.
Father Bernard snapped his piercing eyes
onto mine.
What is he talking about? He said, my
cheeks burned with embarrassment. No
matter how hard I tried to think of a
response, I didn't know what to say.
I felt my mouth had been wired shut and
stood there silently beside Father
Bernard like a frightened mute.
Luckily, Angela's voice broke the
silence that had descended over the
apartment, saving me from having to
speak. "My companion is too merciful,"
she said. Her horse voice assaulted my
ears with dagger-like stabs. "I will
kill you both. Then I will send your
souls plummeting into the darkest pits
of hell."
I watched in horror as Angela suddenly
lowered from the ceiling. The air
surrounding her decayed body morphed as
she moved as if she were bending the
very fabric of spacetime.
I didn't have long to contemplate this
strange phenomenon, though, for she
lunged at us with such speed that my
eyes hardly registered her movements.
She crashed into our bodies and sent us
hurtling towards the floor. The air flew
from my lungs as my sternum struck the
ground. I tried to sit up so I could
catch my breath, but Angela leapt upon
my back before I'd had the chance to
even take a single labored breath. With
a scream so piercing it nearly exploded
my eardrums. Angela sunk her cold
fingers into my hair and started
pounding my head into the ground. My
eyes filled with stars as my forehead
continuously struck the floor like an
oversized hammer, and my stomach rolled
with nausea from the vertigo caused by
my concussed brain.
Despite the vitriolic mixture of pain
and fear circumventing my body, I
started laughing.
My laugh morphed into a croak as my jaw
loosened from the pounding. But my mirth
remained.
To think that Angela, of all people, the
woman who'd beg me to help her only a
day ago, would be the one to murder me
was hilarious.
Kindness and fragility were her
dominating characteristics. And there
she was trying to explode my skull on
the carpet. The entire incident rire of
humor. Even I found it funny, and I was
moments away from blacking out.
But then I remembered Angela's violent
death and the invader that now
reanimated her body, and my laughter
stopped.
"Release him," said Father Bernard from
somewhere to my left.
I heard the pounding of feet across the
carpet, followed by the splattering of
water.
Angela screamed moments later, released
my hair, and went careening towards the
kitchen. Father Bernard had doused her
with what remained of the holy water.
"If I wouldn't have been so focused on
regaining my breath, I would have
smirked at the sight of her smoking
skin." "Get up," said Father Bernard. He
grabbed my shoulders and hoisted me to
my feet. He then grabbed another
crucifix from the wall and placed it in
my hand. "You're going to need this.
It's time you start defending yourself.
And besides, I need your help if we're
going to escape with our lives.
Wrapped my fingers around the crucifix
and nodded my head. Lead the way, I
said.
Father Bernard started creeping towards
the kitchen. Candle and crucifix raised
in front of him like sword and shield. I
followed him closely, clutching my
newfound weapon so tightly my knuckles
achd. I could hear Angela flailing
inside the kitchen like a wounded bear.
Father Bernard's holy water had splashed
directly into her face. I imagined her
eyes dangling from her sockets like
cracked eggs and shuddered.
We had her on the ropes. All we needed
to do now was give her one final push to
send a plummeting band to hell with
Raphael soon to follow. Father Bernard's
candle illuminated the kitchen,
highlighting Angela writhing on the
ground like a fish out of water, face
halfmelted by the holy water.
Her eyes had entirely dissolved,
revealing dark, desolate sockets that
consumed the light of the candle like a
black hole. The skin on her nose and
cheeks laid in tatters on the floor
around her. Where once her face had been
slander and beautiful, it was now
gnarled and crooked with nothing but
exposed tendons and blackened flesh to
remind those who dared gaze upon her of
her once captivating beauty.
We paused next to the pitiful corpse and
stared down at it with contempt, mind
silent and debating hell to put it out
of its misery.
"Ah, we'll finish off," said Father
Bernard. He raised his crucifix in
preparation to strike.
Just as he was about to bring the cross
down onto her ever disintegrating heads,
Raphael leapt from the shadows, eyes
wild, and wrapped his hands around
Father Bernard's throats.
"Don't you dare touch her," said
Raphael.
He squeezed his fingers so hard around
Father Bernard's neck, the priest's eyes
bulged. Their shoes skidded across the
lenolium as they struggled for power
over one another. Occasionally, one of
their feet would land on Angela,
snapping a finger or cracking a rib.
Bernard's face turned a sickly purple.
Several of the vessels in his eyes
popped from the pressure being exerted
on his skull, filling his eyes with
blood.
Just as I feared that he might
suffocate, he reared back with all of
his strength and plunged his crucifix
onto Raphael's forehead. Smoke
billowed off of the child's skin as the
metal cross burrowed into his flesh.
Much to my horror, Father Bernard's
valiant effort only angered Raphael more
and caused the possessed child to
tighten his fingers around the priest's
throat.
Raphael screamed in pain as his charred
flesh tumbled onto his sunken chest, but
he still refused to release his prey. It
was like a cornered viper. I could tell
he would do anything in his power to
claim his kill.
Soon all that remained of his forehead
was the withered bloody crown of his
skull, which reflected the light of the
candle rolling along the ground in
flashes of black and crimson.
"Help me," stammered Father Bernard,
drawing upon what little oxygen remained
in his lungs to address me. He
repositioned his crucifix onto Raphael's
cheek and closed his eyes as a fresh
wave of smoke washed over his face.
Father Bernard's word sprung me into
action. I leapt over Angela's writhing
legs and tackled Raphael to the ground.
The child's ribs cracked as my full
weight landed on top of him. Pain and
confusion overtook his bloodshot eyes as
the stringy remains of his blacken cheek
went tumbling into his mouth.
I watched from my place on the ground as
Bernard stumbled, wheezing heavily
towards the dining room table.
After pausing for a moment to clear his
sweat-drenched eyes, he picked up the
porcelain bowl that contained the pasta
we'd eaten for dinner and scrambled back
into the kitchen.
"Back away from him," he said, raising
the bowl above his head. I leapt off
Raphael's chest just as Father Bernard
pummeled the base of the bowl into the
demon's face. Raphael's limbs flailed
from the force of the blow. I watched as
a fracture spread across his exposed
skull like an earthquake fault line, and
I cringed.
What happened next, I do not have the
heart to write. Suffice it to say that
blood, pasture, and bits of skull soon
covered the entirety of the floor, and
both Raphael and Angela's bodies, which
had been used for purposes so vile I
shudder even now, were finally allowed
to enter their eternal slumbers.
May God have mercy on their souls.
"The deed is done," said Father Bernard.
He released his grip on the bowl and
sent it clattering onto the filth laden
ground.
I averted my gaze from the mess below
me. The copper scent of blood filled my
nose, triggering my gag reflex.
"You're in shock," said Father Bernard.
"I've got something that will help you."
He disappeared into the bathroom inside
the master bedroom, then returned a few
moments later carrying a glass filled
with a dark liquid. "Drink it," he said.
"It will make you feel better."
I grabbed the glass from his hand. "What
is it?" I said. "Medic."
If my mind hadn't been reeling from the
horrors that had just taken place, I
would have questioned him further. Given
the intense fear numbing my reason,
though, I simply nodded and down the
liquid.
Within moments, my vision grew blurry. I
stumbled into the living room and they
went crashing to the ground. The last
thing I saw before falling unconscious
was Father Bernard leaning over me, eyes
filled with hatred.
I awoke an indeterminable amount of time
later in a dark room. I tried to move my
arms, but the sound of rustling chains
greeted my ears. It was then I realized
my limbs were bound to the wall. I
couldn't move any more than 6 in before
my chains locked into place.
Panic filled my lungs as I darted my
sightless eyes across the chamber. No
matter how hard I strained my pupils,
though, I couldn't make out anything in
the darkness. My senses were completely
nullified. I could hardly tell up from
down. My throat was still sticky from
the liquid that I consumed earlier. God,
I chastise myself for falling for
Bernard's ruse. How could I be so stupid
to accept anything the priest gave me,
much less a strange liquid? To think I'd
come so far only to make such a careless
mistake made my blood boil. I've been so
close to stealing the laptop. To finding
out not only what sick plans were
driving Father Bernard, but the entire
church,
now I would die in this demented
chamber. Lonely and forgotten.
The clanking of my chains must have
alerted Bernard for a trap door opened
to my right moments later, flooding the
room with light.
It took a few seconds for my eyes to
adjust, but when they did, I let out a
terrified scream.
Chains of the walls around me were a
dozen corpses.
All were in varying stages of
decomposition and slumped against their
chains like feted ragdolls.
Bizarre symbols covered their naked
flesh, which were caked with dry blood
and looked so evil that they stole the
air from my throat.
I heard the thing of feet on the wooden
ladder that descended into the chamber
and turned my head just in time to see
Bernard reach the ground.
Ah, it's about time you woke up, he
said. For a while, I was wondering if
I'd accidentally killed you.
He stroed over to me and paused 2 ft
away from my face. All of the gore that
had been plastered to his clothes and
skin had been washed away. He must have
shered and changed while I had been
unconscious.
I looked down at his hands and saw that
he was carrying a book.
"Why are you doing this to me?" I said.
"What is this place?
Ah, this is my temple. My private
sanctuary in which I hold communion with
God. All of my work, my true work takes
place in this chamber. These walls are
sacred. When Jesus Christ returns to
Earth, it will be in this room. I can
assure you of that.
I tried my best to hide my incredility,
but I doubted that I did a good job.
her. Father Bernard's words were so
bizarre that they frightened me even
more than the corpses pinned to the
walls.
"You're delusional," I said, voice
surprisingly strong. I'd feared that my
distress would cause my voice to come
out as little more than a croak. "Do you
honestly believe what you're saying?"
"Of course I do. And if you possess the
knowledge that I possess, you wouldn't
be asking me such a ridiculous
question."
What knowledge?
The knowledge of the apostle I have?
What do you mean? What knowledge has the
power to influence someone to commit
such horrible crimes? You have no idea.
My hands trembled as Father Bernard's
eyes bored into my own. Blood still
filled his corners from when Raphael had
popped his blood vessels, making him
look like a cadaavver in the low light.
Why are you telling me this?
And how do you know I won't reveal your
secrets the moment I get the chance?
Bernard let out a laugh that froze the
marrow in my bones.
Reveal me to who? He said the police,
the press. The church runs both. Good
luck getting anybody to take your side
over ours. My work has been going on for
centuries, long before either you or I
were born. Will continue for centuries
more. I'm not the first priest to follow
my particular line of inquiry, and I
certainly won't be the last.
Even if you could convince anybody that
I've committed the horrible crimes that
you say I have, though, it matters not.
Your life is rapidly coming to a close.
Any revelations that you have uncovered
about myself or the church will follow
you to your grave. I mean, if killing me
is your plan, why'd you bring me down
here? Why didn't you just slit my throat
or pierce my heart while I was
unconscious? Would have saved you a lot
of trouble. Father Bernard tightened his
grip on the book.
I need your flesh. The inverion
defortunite works best while the subject
is still alive. I can make use of
corpses, yes, but the results are often
unpredictable.
I don't need another incident like what
happened downstairs.
How Raphael and Angela escaped from
their chains. I do not know. All I know
is that you won't be so fortunate.
He thumbmed open the mysterious book to
a yellowed page near the center.
Try not to look so bleak. You never
know. It was the adjustments I'm going
to make to the wording this time. Maybe
St. Paul will come and dear your body
instead of a bell.
Before I had a chance to respond, he
started reciting a passage from the
book. Ancient Latin phrases reverberated
around the chamber, sending my hair on
edge.
I felt like a pig being led to
slaughter, but resisted the urge to
scream.
As Father Bernard continued reading the
rights, I felt a tingling sensation
ripple across my body. This tingly
started in my toes and within moments
had passed through my cranium.
Never before had I felt so violated.
I felt as if something alive was
writhing underneath my skin. Before I
knew it, my entire body was shaking,
sending my chains exploding against the
wall.
Just as I feared that I might pass out.
Bernard fell silent. He stared at me for
a few moments, eyes gleaming in the
light drifting down from the still open
trap door before pulling a knife from
his tunic. I grimaced as he cut away my
shirt and began to carve symbols into my
stomach. These symbols were archaic in
shape. Never once did I come across them
in my studies.
Blood pulled around my feet as he
continued lacerating my skin. Each slice
was more painful than the last, and soon
tears streaked my cheeks.
When every inch of my torso was covered
in these vile marks, he thumbmed back
open the book and continued reciting the
right.
My shaking became exponentially more
violent. White foam shot from my mouth
like a shotgun and splattered Father
Bernard's face. The priest simply wiped
away the saliva and kept reading as if
my physiological reaction was the most
normal thing in the world.
Suddenly, and without warning, an alien
presence exploded into my mind.
This presence felt evil and filled me
with such despair that soon a desire to
slit my wrists had overtaken me. I sent
up a desperate prayer to God to save me
from such a horrible death to keep the
demonic entity slowly devouring my body
from stealing my soul.
Just as I was about to succumb to the
vile presence infiltrating my spirits, a
guttural scream sounded to my lip,
cutting off Bernard's words.
The moment the priest's recitation
stopped, so did my convulsions.
My mind instantly cleared, and never
before had I felt such joy.
I turned to my left just in time to see
what I previously thought to be a corpse
lunge forward and wrap his arms around
Father Bernard's chest, pulling him
towards the wall. The chains confining
its limbs groaned with the effort. Had
Father Bernard been standing a mere 6 in
further away, he would have been safe
from the creature's clutches, and as it
stood, he had been positioned within the
entity's grab radius, was now struggling
to free himself like an ins snared
insect.
Father Bernard let out a petrified
scream as the corpse-like man sunk its
teeth into his neck.
Blood poured from his exposed vein like
a ruptured waterline and collected in
the folds of his tunic. No matter how
hard Father Bernard struggled, his
captor's steel-like grip held true. The
demon quivered with ecstasy as it
slurped down the priest's blood.
Who knows how long this experiment from
hell had been languishing in the
chamber. biting its time for the perfect
moment to enact revenge on the man
responsible for holding it captive.
Based on the level of composition his
body had endured, I would say a long
time.
A long time.
Father Bernard let out a final
frightened shriek, then went limp in the
creature's arms.
I watched in suspense as the entity,
after taking a few more gulfs of blood,
proceeded to check his pockets for a
key.
After a few moments of searching, it
found the key and freed itself from the
chains that had confined its limbs for a
small eternity.
It then fled naked from the chamber on
its shaking and atrophied legs, leaving
me standing there alone as Father
Bernard slumped to the ground beside my
feet.
Procuring the key for myself proved to
be quite the challenge, but after a
mighty stretch, I was able to grab it
from the lock that the creature had left
it dangling from. The moment I freed
myself from the chains, my heart burst
with relief.
Only moments ago, I thought that this
chamber would be my tomb. That I was now
free filled me with such joy that my
hands shook. I rubbed at the bruises,
dotting my wrists, and peered down at
Father Bernard.
If the priest wasn't already dead, he
certainly would be soon.
Such a massive pool of blood surrounded
him that it had to be impossible for him
to survive.
So, after taking a final glance around
the chamber, I climbed up the ladder,
shaking but relieved, and back into the
light.
The cool surface of the laptop greeted
my hands, causing me to smile for the
first time in days.
I rummaged through the desk drawers for
a few moments and laughed with delight
when I found a small slip of paper that
contained all of Father Bernard's login
information.
I powered on the laptop. After a few
minutes of searching the computer's hard
drive, I located the apostolic archive
and signed in.
Such a wealth of documents populated the
screen that my heart started
palpitating.
Now wasn't the time to peruse them,
though. I was still in danger. I needed
to return to the safety of my hotel room
before a word of Father Bernard's death
had spread.
I needed to return to the safety of my
hotel room before word of Father
Bernard's death spread.
Just as I was about to hurry out of the
apartment, my mind leapt to a stack of
photos I had come across in the desk,
and I paused.
I've been so consumed with finding
Father Bernard's login information that
I'd neglected to look through these
photos.
Although I knew that I needed to flee
from the Vatican Palace while I still
had time, my curiosity got the better of
me, and I returned to the desk.
What I saw turned my stomach.
The content of these photos was mundane.
They were all just photos of Bernard
posing with other priests,
but the date turn my blood to ice.
1886.
Ever since stealing the laptop, I've
been on the run. The church quickly
learned of my involvement in Bernard's
demise. How, I don't know, and have been
hunting me ever since. They'll stop at
nothing to reprocure the laptop. A fact
which becomes clearer to me day by day.
My life is in constant danger now, but I
wouldn't have it any other way. Ah, the
documents in the apostic archive are too
important not to share with the public.
I'd rather die than let such profound
knowledge remain hidden. In short, the
laptop I stole from a Catholic priest
has access to the Vatican secret
library.
And now the disclosure begins.
[Music]
So my dear friends, those of you who
have been around a few years will
recognize that as a what do I call a
legacy recording? Yeah, that was one I
did about 5 years ago. And as happens
way too often, some uh somebody of
illreute has come in and said, "Oh yeah,
you use my music in your thing." And of
course I didn't because I u record all
my own background m pretty much all my
own background music. And yeah, I can't
tell you how frustrating it is. Anyway,
so that is a remastered, re-edited,
perfected version of a classic story
from a few years ago. So if you've heard
that one before, then um I hope you
appreciate the fact that it's been
renewed. Anyway,
hope you're having a great weekend. Back
again tomorrow night with something
brand new.
[Music]
Thank you so much for taking the time to
listen to this story today. Really means
a lot to me and to the author of the
story, of course. Well, if you want to
know more about me, I'm pretty much
everywhere on social media. You can find
me on Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, you
can download my music on Soundcloud. Um,
I've got a Patreon if you feel like
throwing me a dollar or two. Very much
appreciated. And of course on Reddit, I
have a place where you can leave stories
if you want me to read one that you've
written. Well, hoping to see you all
again very soon. Till then, sweet
dreams. Bye-bye.